[THEME MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
back to another edition
of "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory with our
special guest, Dianne Arcangel.
And if you missed Dianne's
first program with me,
go back and take a look
at it because it really
will put things into
perspective as we continue
talking about
afterlife encounters
and just what happens to
people who go to the other side
and what happens to people who
have loved ones who have gone.
Bereavement-- that's a tough,
tough subject for people,
isn't it?
>> DIANNE ARCANGEL: It is
a tough subject, George,
but you know what?
It does not have to be
tough to talk about.
And that's the main thing
is when someone is bereaved,
it's so important to talk,
so important to find someone
with whom we can share our
thoughts and our deepest,
deepest feelings.
>>NOORY: I have noticed
that when you go to a wake
or to a funeral, some
people are crying.
Some people aren't.
Why not?
Why the difference?
>>ARCANGEL: Oh, why the
difference of why some people
are crying and why not goes to--
>>NOORY: The other ones--
>>ARCANGEL: It can be huge.
>>NOORY: They're laughing and
the Irish drink and you know,
he was a great guy.
But why that difference?
>>ARCANGEL: For
one thing, George,
we were trained-- everything--
if you think about it
from childhood, everything
we know about life, death,
and loss goes back
to our childhood,
to the very first bird we might
found in the yard, grandma's
dog who died.
We were all taught as
children how to grieve.
For some people, we were
taught, big boys don't cry.
Uh-uh-uh, little girls
don't show their anger.
No, no, no, no, no.
So we just keep a
stiff upper lip.
We don't cry, especially
in front of other people.
>>NOORY: You've got
a couple books out,
"Afterlife Encounters"
and "Life After Loss,"
two different books
but two similar books.
Tell me about each one.
>>ARCANGEL: Yes,
"Life After Loss"
is strictly a bereavement book.
"Life"-- "Afterlife Encounters"
is for anyone wondering what
happens after death.
Does consciousness continue?
Where does it go?
Who sees afterlife encounters?
Who experiences them?
Why do some people
experience them?
Other people don't.
Why?
>>NOORY: I had a friend of mine
who was reading a book on life
after death and he was
reading it at his desk.
And he's reading.
He's into chapter 1.
He's into chapter 2.
He lives alone and it was late
at night and he got tired.
He went to bed after chapter 2.
Wakes up in the morning-- the
book is flipped to chapter 6.
And he's going,
oh, this is weird.
He lives alone.
He's the only
person in the house.
He went back to chapter 2.
We read a few more chapters.
He read up to chapter 6, put it
away, went out for the night.
Came back-- it's now at chapter
9 and he's totally baffled.
He and I concluded that a
loved one he knew who passed on
was reading that book.
What do you think of that?
>>ARCANGEL: That could very--
>>NOORY: Possible?
>>ARCANGEL: It's
absolutely possible.
>>NOORY: I mean,
he didn't flip it
and he was telling me the truth.
>>ARCANGEL: We look
for evidential things.
There are certain things that
we look for evidence for life
after death and one is
a physical object being
manipulated.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>ARCANGEL: And there
you have evidence
of a physical object being
manipulated as for evidence.
And yes, we believe that
they do have things to do
and maybe for some reason,
they needed to read that book.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
And I was going to say, why read
a book on afterlife experiences
from the other side?
What are they trying to learn?
>>ARCANGEL: And it could be
perhaps the apparition was here
to flip open to that page
because that's the page he
wanted the person to focus on--
>>NOORY: Oh, that's
a good point.
>>ARCANGEL: He wanted
your friend to focus on.
>>NOORY: That's right.
That's a good point.
You did some research with
Dean Radin, Dean an expert
on consciousness.
Tell me a little bit
about that because you
don't talk too much about that.
>>ARCANGEL: I don't
That is something
I really don't talk about.
>>NOORY: You will today.
>>ARCANGEL: Dean is fantastic.
Dean is like one of my
favorite researchers.
Dean is incredible.
Any of his books--
if someone's wanting
to read anything
on consciousness,
Dean's books are incredible.
We were hired by the
University of UNLV.
>>NOORY: Las Vegas, right?
>>ARCANGEL: Right-- to
go in and do a study.
We brought in I believe it
was six different people
into a dark room.
And it was set up, George,
with microphones, recorders--
every type of recording
equipment you can think of,
Dean got.
For example, we
had one FLIR camera
that cost $250,000 to rent
one weekend, just one weekend.
But Dean was able to
do that, brought it in.
We did the research.
And in fact, do you want to
hear a story just out of--
>>NOORY: Yeah, absolutely.
>>ARCANGEL: We brought a medium.
We brought all different
types of people
from all different
walks of life.
But our last person--
we wanted to see
what a medium would do if
we put him in this booth
and hooked up.
We wanted to see if we
could pick up anything
on film, which we picked up
some anomalies, picked up
some recorded anomalies.
But we brought in
a medium and he
was sitting in this dark
booth for us to record.
And meanwhile,
everything went out
and we had a camera on the
medium, this FLIR camera.
And when he came in, the medium
was completely color like you,
color like me.
He turned completely white,
George, totally white.
The only thing we
could see were two
little black were his nostrils,
where he was breathing.
Well, the cameraman
who was there
to protect his $250,000
piece of equipment
came running into the room.
He said, I'll fix it.
I'll fix it.
Something's wrong.
He walked into the
room and the medium
said, oh, your uncle is here.
Your niece is here, and began
giving this man a reading.
Now, the man was the
color, the normal color,
but the medium was still
there totally white.
So we said, there's
something wrong with mediums
that they can do, it
changes their physiology.
Now, this medium says he's
had near-death experiences.
So he believes his psyche goes
out and contacts the deceased
and brings it back.
>>NOORY: It probably does.
>>ARCANGEL: Could be.
>>NOORY: Now, back to your
research with Radin-- what
were you trying to accomplish?
>>ARCANGEL: We were trying
to get anything on film,
anything auditory
recorded so we could say,
all right, we have this
evidential evidence,
I mean, on tape.
>>NOORY: Like an EVP sound?
Or beyond that?
>>ARCANGEL: We did have some
of that type of it but mainly,
we wanted it on film, something
that you could actually see.
You could actually say,
OK, look at this image.
We got a few things.
Unfortunately, we never
could get any more funding
so we didn't do
any more research.
I would love to
do more with Dean.
>>NOORY: Did you
conclude anything?
>>ARCANGEL: We concluded
there seems to be something
beyond this Earth.
And there was nothing--
again, nothing harmful.
No one was-- I mean,
everyone-- everyone
who went into this dark room
had some type of experience.
Perhaps it was not an
apparition but they
said they experienced
something unusual in-- now,
why a dark room?
We put a dark room.
You've heard of oracles of
the dead from ancient Greece?
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>ARCANGEL: This was--
we kind of thought, well,
if the oracles from ancient
Greece went into a dark room
and they had
something reflecting,
what if we made a
modern-day oracle?
So that's what Dean and I did.
We created this
modern-day oracle.
It was just a dark room with
a slightly reflective surface.
So we did pick up
things-- not enough
to where we can really move
forward with it until we
had more research.
>>NOORY: Do you know
Rosemary Ellen Guiley?
She's my co-author
in the book, "Talking
to the Dead" and a
great researcher.
She has been researching
black mirrors.
They're black but
when you look in them,
you generally might see the
reflection of the other side.
It's amazing how
technology can pick up
some of this, which is leading
me to understand and believe
that the other side is science.
It's not supernatural.
It's very physical and natural.
Are you at that point yet?
>>ARCANGEL: I am
at that point yet.
I am at the point of it
being science and natural.
And that's what I
love about science is
that we look for things that we
can document, that we can say,
this isn't just a
thought or a fleeting.
It's something on paper
that something is there.
It's more concrete.
>>NOORY: When somebody
dies, we have always
suspected, according
to religion,
that they can go
to heaven or hell.
Not sure that really is the
case-- what do you think?
>>ARCANGEL: Well, George,
as far as heaven and hell,
I have over 100,000
documented accounts.
Elizabeth Kubler-Ross,
with whom I worked,
had 250,000 documented accounts.
Bill Rowe, another researcher
colleague of mine, had 200,000.
We compile-- and I'm with
a group of researchers,
50 international researchers.
We do not have any
evidence of a hell.
Now, there have been--
>>NOORY: Huh.
Nothing?
>>ARCANGEL: Nothing, nothing--
it's all just peace, love, joy.
>>NOORY: Well, what happens
to the evil person who died
and goes to the other side?
I mean, aren't they punished?
>>ARCANGEL: Well, this is kind
of-- from what we understand is
that when there's evil on
Earth-- George, as you know,
there's a lot--
>>NOORY: There's lots
of evil on Earth.
>>ARCANGEL: Terrible,
terrible evil on Earth.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>ARCANGEL: But
what-- it seems to be
right now from the researcher--
now again, I don't know.
All I can tell you is
just what we have gathered
is that when we leave here,
we leave all of that behind.
And that's why we're here is
to work through the things
that we've built up and built
up over many years of living
and being reincarnated.
So we leave all of our
negativity behind here
and that's why we float
up and away from here.
But all of that is left here.
>>NOORY: But the serial killer's
soul, what happens to it?
>>ARCANGEL: And again, it just--
>>NOORY: Is it meshed in
with all the good ones?
>>ARCANGEL: It's just
because all that negativity
that he-- that killer, that
terrorist, when he leaves here,
all that is left behind.
>>NOORY: Hmm.
>>ARCANGEL: And part of this
is what we have gathered--
>>NOORY: We're stuck with it.
>>ARCANGEL: Is
that you're right.
We are stuck with it is
that we have had people
who have died by suicide
who have come back to say,
I was so angry.
I was so, so angry.
And what I realize now
is that all of that anger
and all of that negativity--
>>NOORY: That hate.
>>ARCANGEL: That hate,
that's earthly stuff.
And if I had just stayed
there and worked it through,
now I see why I had those events
happen in my life, what I was
supposed to be working through.
Not only did I
cheat my relatives
and my friends
and my colleagues,
I cheated me the most.
Now, I realize if I had
just stuck it through what
my life would have been like.
>>NOORY: Dianne, the Vatican
has courses on exorcisms.
So they believe that
there's evil out there,
that there's demons out there.
Now, we know there's evil
living here on this planet
but they're convinced
it's beyond that.
So there seems to be a little
difference between what they're
doing and what you believe.
How come?
>>ARCANGEL: That's
right, George.
And here, it goes back to
what they're doing is religion
and what we're doing is science.
And I would love to bridge
the two, bridge the science
and the religion.
So far, it hasn't happened.
But that's why when we go over
and we study these things,
we don't get the same
outcome that they do.
We don't get the same
findings that they do.
>>NOORY: Do you think
that that exorcism, trying
to get a demon out of somebody,
that the person's just
whacked out or is
it really happening?
>>ARCANGEL: Well, George,
if some of these people
go into, say, go into
therapy, they can find relief.
They can work with-- I mean, I
don't have the answer for sure,
whether it's demons, whether
it's-- but just from science,
we know when we take these
people and we take them
into counseling or to therapy,
they get tremendous relief.
So whether it's really they're
demonized and that helps them
or whether it's some type
of chemical imbalance--
maybe they have some
type of a disease.
You know, there
are a lot of things
that can happen to the brain
that gets us off-whack.
>>NOORY: I'd love to
get you to an exorcism--
>>ARCANGEL: I would, too.
>>NOORY: Just so
you'd witness it.
I wonder what you'd
say afterward.
>>ARCANGEL: Well,
George, I'll go with you.
Invite me and I'll go.
>>NOORY: Maybe I'm
going to be exorcised.
>>ARCANGEL: All right.
>>NOORY: You never know.
>>ARCANGEL: I was invited to--
there was a ghost researcher,
he called himself.
And he said he went out
to people who called him
that said they had a loved one
who was trapped between worlds
or trapped on this world.
And he invited me to go
with him and he said,
this is one of the top
research in the United States
for these ghostly events.
>>NOORY: Did you believe him?
>>ARCANGEL: Well, let me
tell you what I found.
He had never talked
to this woman.
She called and said
that her-- I believe
it was her husband
had been murdered
and that he was trapped
here in her apartment.
We went out and he
immediately told her,
yes, he's trapped here and
we're going to put the EVP.
We're going to put the
sound equipment over here.
And so in other words,
he went in with a bias
that the husband was trapped
and that he was going
to put this EVP equipment.
I couldn't hear anything.
In fact, in "Afterlife
Encounters," my book,
I talked about going
to a research project
with Bill Rowe
where we interviewed
and we studied for
a week with someone
who was the top EVP researcher
in the United States.
Now, he heard--
>>NOORY: Those are eerie.
Some of them are eerie--
>>ARCANGEL: Yes.
>>NOORY: Especially
little kids and stuff.
>>ARCANGEL: And
from the five people
who were sitting in the
room when they played back
the types of supposedly
EVP, we each heard something
very different.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
I know when I play
it on the radio,
I have to tell
people what they're
going to hear because you
really can't distinguish
in a lot of times.
But there's clearly
something there.
You just sometimes
can't hear it.
>>ARCANGEL: That's right.
Yeah, there usually
is something there.
>>NOORY: What do you
think consciousness is?
>>ARCANGEL: I
believe consciousness
is energy, George.
It's just energy.
And that's something--
>>NOORY: Natural?
>>ARCANGEL: It's
a natural energy.
And that-- when your
question reminded me of,
I get asked a lot, so is
an apparition a ghost?
I say, no, an apparition is
very different from a ghost.
A ghost is what you're
talking-- is residual energy.
When you leave your chair, I can
bring some type of a meter over
and I can measure
where your energy was.
And it's the same thing
with people who are living.
After we die, our
energy is left behind.
Some of our energy
is left behind.
Now, there are people who are
really sensitive to energies
and they can go and
they can see this ghost.
It takes form.
But the difference is that
the ghost never communicates.
A ghost is not interactive
and a ghost is place-oriented.
It's stay.
Say, for instance,
in your chair,
it would stay where you are.
My chair, it will
stay where I am.
>>NOORY: In the house, whatever.
>>ARCANGEL: In the house,
in the car, in the building,
wherever, whereas an
apparition is people-oriented.
It goes with us.
It's interactive.
It will talk.
Sometimes, it will touch us.
It will hug us.
So it's very different from
an apparition and a ghost.
>>NOORY: When you interview
people about the other side,
how do you start?
>>ARCANGEL: I start with--
first of all, it's research
and they get a
survey to fill out.
And the survey says,
were they comforted?
To what level of comfort?
Or it goes back to another
research where it was
with the focus on the departed.
Did the departed--
were they high-energy?
Were they low-energy?
Were they extroverted?
Were they introverted?
So I begin with, where are
they and also with grief.
First of all, before I ever talk
with anyone on the afterlife,
I need to know where
they are along.
Are they-- first of all, are
they even grief-stricken?
Some people who call are--
>>NOORY: They're not, are they?
>>ARCANGEL: Are not at all.
And they say, I have longed
to see someone, anybody.
I would just love to have
an apparition or a ghost,
any kind of visit--
have never had anything
and they want to know why.
>>NOORY: Where does this
take you in the future?
What's next for you, Dianne?
>>ARCANGEL: Oh, George, that
is an excellent question.
You know, we have so much to
learn about the other world.
We've done so many studies here
and with people here and people
who have had experiences
and the perceivers.
But there's been very little
research on the other side.
For instance, what
are they doing?
How often do they visit?
>>NOORY: Are they
having a party?
Who knows?
>>ARCANGEL: There you go.
Who are they with?
Are they with a
group of friends?
Are they-- you know, what
kind of work are they doing?
>>NOORY: I mean, do they have
another life on the other side?
>>ARCANGEL: That's it.
>>NOORY: It lasts
forever, right?
>>ARCANGEL: Right, right.
>>NOORY: What about the devil?
Is there a devil?
>>ARCANGEL: I have--
>>NOORY: You've said
in our previous show
that there really is no hell.
>>ARCANGEL: Well, we
don't have evidence.
I can't say that
there is no hell.
It's just we don't
have evidence and "we"
meaning all the researchers
that I've ever worked with.
Now, we're scholarly
researchers.
We all come from
scholarly backgrounds
or we've worked
with universities.
So we don't have any
evidence for a hell, spirits
trapped on Earth.
>>NOORY: But what
about the devil?
>>ARCANGEL: Don't have any
kind of evidence for it.
>>NOORY: So you don't
think it's there?
>>ARCANGEL: I haven't-- I
don't-- I have not ever had any
kind of evidence
that it's there.
I don't have any experience
of it being there.
I'm not going to say
that I disbelieve but I
am reluctant to believe, simply
but-- you know, George, I'm
69 years old.
I've been researching
for a long time.
>>NOORY: Yes, you have.
Do you recommend that
people try to contact
those on the other side?
Is that important to them?
>>ARCANGEL: It depends on
why they want to contact.
And that's a great
question, George.
I get a lot of
people say, I would
love to contact my mother, my
dad, my uncle, my whomever.
Spirits cannot be conjured.
Now, we can invite
them and I see nothing
wrong with inviting them.
Mom, I would really
like to talk with you.
But we cannot conjure a spirit.
There's places that they
evidently have to go
and things they have to do.
Now, I would never even
invite my mother, for example,
because George, what if she's
holding up a flying airplane
or helping with a sinking ship?
I don't want to be selfish and
have her come see me and drop
what she's doing.
So I would never
invite-- I might say,
at some point in your leisure,
you know, I'm open for it.
>>NOORY: Come on by.
>>ARCANGEL: There you go.
There are some people out there
who are truly mentally ill.
They see things.
They hear things.
How do you distinguish
between that and a real case
about afterlife encounters?
>>ARCANGEL: That is an
excellent question, George.
The way we extinguish
between what
we call a hallucination, someone
who's just hallucinating.
It's not really there--
>>NOORY: And that happens.
>>ARCANGEL: That happens a lot,
a lot and then someone who's
really having an
afterlife encounter
is the hallucinations are
terrifying, absolutely
terrifying.
The person usually
is so terrified, so
traumatized, that they
need some type of sedation,
some type of medication,
whereas afterlife encounters,
at least those that we have
researched, are comforting.
In fact, my study
that I did with 6,000
international participants
all found comfort to-- well,
I shouldn't say "all."
90-- I think about 96% found
comfort to some degree.
>>NOORY: That's huge.
That's a great number.
>>ARCANGEL: Huge.
>>NOORY: Who's more apt
to see the other side?
Children?
Adults?
How do you--
>>ARCANGEL: The more
apt to the other side,
it depends on personality
type, basically.
I did a study with
a Myers-Briggs,
which is extra-- excuse me--
extravert versus introvert,
thinking versus feeling.
And from that study, I
found that feeling types
are more likely to have
afterlife encounters.
And I believe it's because--
you know, the thinkers-- I don't
know if you're a thinking-- no,
you're not probably a thinking
type.
The thinking types
are constantly
putting things
through in their head,
just constantly processing.
Their mental state is so active.
They never just sit back for a
minute, whereas I'm a feeling
type, high-level feeling type.
My mind kind of closed
down for a little bit,
can slow down a
little to where that's
why the feeling type are able
to have afterlife encounters.
>>NOORY: The ancients were
very big on the afterlife.
>>ARCANGEL: Very big.
>>NOORY: And that seems to
have carried through to us
at this time.
Do you think they knew
anything that we don't yet
at this point?
>>ARCANGEL: That's another
great question, George.
I don't know if they knew
anything that we don't.
I know that their lives were
centered on the afterlife.
>>NOORY: They were
obsessed with it.
>>ARCANGEL: Oh, yes.
Their lives were based
around getting prepared
for their afterlife.
Their--
>>NOORY: They wrote books,
"The Tibetan Book of the Dead,"
"The Egyptian Book of Dead."
I mean, they just were
part of this all the time.
>>ARCANGEL: Yes,
they did drawings.
They did--
>>NOORY: They dwelled
on this all the time.
>>ARCANGEL: Constantly.
And this was-- they
did their little boats
or they made their carvings
and their sketches of the boats
for the afterlife.
They would get on a boat and--
>>NOORY: Off they go.
>>ARCANGEL: Off they go.
They were very focused on it.
And it seems like for a
while, we got away from that.
And I believe we can thank
science for bringing us back
to this point because when
the scientists at Fordham
began researching and
they said, wait a minute.
We cannot explain this
or how could this happen?
Then, it seems like
more people became
fascinated and engaged
with the thought of, OK, so
consciousness is here.
So energy-- energy never dies.
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm.
You talked earlier in another
program about a phone call
from a woman's husband.
What manifests that spirit to be
able to physically ring a phone
or leave a message or move keys?
How do they do this?
>>ARCANGEL: What manifests
the apparition or the spirit
to be able to manipulate a
physical object here on Earth,
many years ago, we
thought that it was us,
that we project our
energy so much that we
could, with them, combine
and move physical objects.
But now, we have
found-- like, there
are several examples in my book
where the person didn't even
know the physical
object was being moved,
like this lady whose husband
left her the message that
was in the former.
And what manifests, George,
is we know there's energy.
How they can actually move
that physical object seems
to be strictly by their
energy is so strong.
>>NOORY: Is there
anything that we
should be scared of with this?
>>ARCANGEL: To my knowledge,
there is absolutely nothing
to be afraid of.
As they say, "Fear is our fear."
>>NOORY: Promise?
>>ARCANGEL: Yes.
>>NOORY: Pinky promise?
>>ARCANGEL: George, honestly, I
have never run across anything.
Now, people have
been frightened.
There's a story in my book about
a grandmother whose grandson
came to see her and
she was so startled
that she pulled the covers up
over her head and went, ah!
>>NOORY: Right.
A lot of people would do that.
>>ARCANGEL: Yes.
But then later, she said,
oh, why did I do that?
He was there.
He reached his arm out for me.
He was there to
tell me something.
Why did I do that?
And then, most people who
have those things happen
say, they try.
They try so hard to
bring that person back
because they want to
know why they were there.
They know they were
there for a reason.
Then, they're not afraid.
It's just they don't
understand them.
If we just get people to
understand what they are,
they would not be afraid.
>>NOORY: Remember the movie,
"A Christmas Carol," when
those three ghosts visited
Scrooge and he would just
come over the covers and
he'd peek and he'd be afraid?
Why are people afraid
of the other side?
>>ARCANGEL: Because
we don't understand.
It's been-- for one thing, it's
been so taboo with religion.
You know, oh, no,
you can't conjure.
Asking for a deceased
loved one, that's conjuring
and we can't conjure them.
And there's the movies
and the television
shows present them
as frightening.
>>NOORY: They're
all frightening.
>>ARCANGEL: Fear sells.
>>NOORY: Action and frightening.
>>ARCANGEL: There you go.
And fear sells, right, George?
>>NOORY: Yeah, nobody's
going to go to a movie
just to see something happy.
They want to be frightened.
>>ARCANGEL: That's right.
And Dean and I have-- Dean Radin
and I have talked about this.
I said, Dean, but they
want to be frightened.
And so if there's a
frightening experience,
they're going to put that on.
But we just-- in our
research-- and Dean
is part of it-- we have not
found anything frightening.
>>NOORY: I mean, what's
more exciting to listen to,
that, ladies and gentlemen,
a tornado of a magnitude five
has just blown through a city
and has destroyed the town
or it's sunny out
today and it's nice?
>>ARCANGEL: That's right.
Who's going to listen to which?
>>NOORY: That's right.
Where does your
research take you next
because I know
you're not stopping?
What's next for you?
>>ARCANGEL: I would like to find
out more about the apparitions.
Now, we know why they come here.
They come here for
a purpose and that
is to help us
during a transition,
any kind of transition.
It can be to
celebrate a wedding.
It can be after a divorce.
It can be absolutely
any kind of transition.
But I would like to know more
about their side over there.
All right.
So they come here.
So what were they doing
before they arrived here?
Were they having a party?
Were they with other friends?
Do they go back to our family of
origin and they group together?
What do we know?
>>NOORY: On the day that you
leave us-- it's kind of sad
but everybody in this building
is going to face that one day.
What will you be thinking about?
>>ARCANGEL: Oh my
goodness, George, no one
has ever asked me that before.
What will I be thinking about?
I will be questioning.
>>NOORY: You're
just ready to go.
You're ready to go
to the other side.
>>ARCANGEL: That's right.
>>NOORY: What are you thinking?
>>ARCANGEL: I will be--
if I haven't already
seen the person is, who
will be there to greet me?
One thing I found
during hospice is
those that we love the most who
loved us the most in return--
>>NOORY: They're there.
>>ARCANGEL: Always there.
They are-- George,
I have never sat
with a dying person that did
not have someone they dearly
loved who loved them in
return there to welcome them
to the other side.
>>NOORY: Sometimes,
the dying see them.
They're in bed and they
just-- there's Aunt Emma.
There's my father.
There's my uncle.
And we're there
standing by the bedside.
We don't see this but they do.
Are we sure they're seeing that?
>>ARCANGEL: And again--
>>NOORY: And not hallucinating?
>>ARCANGEL: Can we say sure?
We have the evidence.
We have the evidence
that when someone
is spiritually open,
whether they're dying,
whether they're terribly
ill, whether they're having
a crisis, we spiritually open.
And that's when we're
more susceptible or more
likely to experience
the other side.
>>NOORY: How important
is it for people
to believe in the other
side, in this existence?
>>ARCANGEL: I believe it's
terribly important for people
to believe that there
is another existence,
that there is life after death.
And probably before,
my husband was
an absolute total non-believer.
And no one supported
my work more
than he did because
he said, I sit back
and I see the difference in
the people that you talk with
and those who believe and
those who are like me, atheists
and we don't
believe in anything.
And he had a horrible
death, George.
He had a terrible death.
I would not wish
his death on anyone
because he did not believe.
So it makes a
tremendous difference,
not only in life
but really at death,
it makes such a difference.
>>NOORY: Well, that transition
is going to be fascinating
when that time comes.
>>ARCANGEL: Yes.
>>NOORY: I wonder how it'll be.
I guess we'll wait.
>>ARCANGEL: Peace,
love, and joy.
>>NOORY: Dianne, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>ARCANGEL: Thank you, George.
Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: Look, we're under no
rush to get to the other side.
But if and when
that time happens,
maybe you'll be prepared
with programs like this.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]